Today,
The 15th of May of 2021
The war has broke, or this round of it,
while I am in a personal state of mourning that you all know. [Translator: the pass away of his famous poet father Mourid Al-Barghouti]
I have become one of the most induced with abstaining from life,
craving to stay away, very knowledgeable of the meaning of loss,
and one of the most aware of the fact that an advisor or a doctor
if he acted in ignorance or if he failed, then he has committed a crime.
Because he exposes people to the risk of his opinion,
while he is safe from its consequences.
Accordingly, I do not say what I say in a passing moment of fervor
in a clash that is not the first, nor will be the last.
I am aware of the heaviness of what I will say
I even dare to say it, specifically, because I am aware of its heaviness.
My say is heavy because it has blood within.
Precious and prestige is the blood!
And I hold the responsibility of my say today and tomorrow,
alive and dead, it is even a testimony and a bequest.
Who wills, shall he remember it for me.
Oh, people!
The liberation of Palestine, all of it, from the sea to the river,
objectively and realistically, possible.
I do not say it is easy. I do not say it is inevitable. I say possible.
It is possible in this generation.
It is possible, not from armies that buy its weapons from their enemy,
but rather in a popular resistance that is continuous and accumulative
like the one happening in front of you now.
Bare patience with me for a few minutes to clarify how.
There is an apartheid regime in Israel that segregates people based on religion.
It is the only country on the face of the earth that grants citizenship based on the inherited religion.
If you would go to a Pakistani airport and tell them that you are a Muslim, they would not grant you a passport.
If you would go to an Indian airport and tell them that you are a Hindu, they would not grant you a passport.
However, it should be enough for you to be Jewish or your mother to be Jewish
to go to Ben Gurion airport and become an Israeli citizen.
You can live in a house whose people were expelled out of it or a land that was stolen from its owners.
This regime is the reason why the Palestinians are either displaced or martyrs.
Not for anything else but because they have been born in this land and because the religion of their mothers
does not come to the liking of a teenage officer whose family came from East Europe recently.
This racist regime rules over the lives of all of the Palestinians
inside of Palestine and outside of it.
Toppling this regime means the liberation of all of Palestine, from sea to river,
and the liberation of all of the Palestinians, wherever they were in this world.
A comprehensive confrontation between the two demographical blocs in historical Palestine;
the people of the land and their invaders, is sufficient to topple this regime.
This confrontation could have been civil like many anti-apartheid movements in a lot of countries
if the rulers of Israel were wise and farsighted.
However, it is taking the form of continuously-increasing violent confrontations
that is expanding, just like the one happening now,
because the rulers of Israel are still narrow-sighted and conceited. [Superior] arms do conceit!
The count of Palestinians between the sea and the river exceeds the count of Jews holding Israeli citizenship
in more than 166,000 people today, according to two official censuses: an Israeli and a Palestinian.
The difference is projected at a rise to the benefit of the Palestinians in the upcoming couple of decades.
The confrontation does not happen against the entirety of the [Jewish] bloc
but rather with the bloc that supports the apartheid which is necessarily lesser.
Palestinians are younger and less wealthy making them more dangerous.
Israel tried to treat that by doing two things: by dividing them then concentrating them in isolated cantons, firstly.
And in inciting some of them against the others, secondly.
It divided them into West Bankers, Gazans, and Jerusalem-ers and Insiders [of Israel].
Then divided the West Bank into Areas A, B, and C
then separated the West Bank cities from each other, then tried to contain the Palestinians using Palestinians
through agreements of peace, security coordination, and economical dependency.
With every new confrontation, those divisions dissolve.
There you see Gaza supporting Jerusalem, while Lod, Galilee, and the West Bank are supporting Gaza.
Lod has even, almost, liberate itself autonomously.
And so, every new confrontation, not only embarrasses the occupation alone,
but also every authority that makes peace with it.
The people are not in a state of peace. If any authority decided to go to peace,
it would not rule over but its employees.
While the Arab armies buy their arms from those who arm Israel,
the Palestinians do not buy the rocks nor the rockets. They rather invent them!
The independence of the arms is a requirement for the dependency of the nation.
There is no way that you would liberate a land with a restricted weapon.
While some Arab government are blockading the Palestinian resistance,
You can clearly see that it is capable of developing its own arms despite the blockade.
The comprehensive confrontation between two intermingling demographic blocs
like the Palestinians and their invaders, deprives Israel of its two military advantages:
the Air Force and the unconventional weaponry.
If Israel can strike Gaza, it cannot strike Jerusalem, Lod, Jaffa, Haifa, or Galilee where the two blocs mix.
It will have to use the police, then their counts would not be enough, then it would need the army.
The more it supports a front, the other weakens.
Even in Gaza, Israel was not able to strike it until it evacuated its settlers out of it.
It stroke it in 2008, 2012, 2014 and did not change a thing.
Even if it [Israel] has decided to reoccupy it, as it did before for 40 years, the resistance grew despite the occupation.
The accumulation of confrontation its variations would pose pressure on the racist regime until it changes.
This means that the country cannot be ruled with half of its population not ceding to its rulers,
but rather disobeying them in every means.
From drawing on the walls, through strikes, through demonstrations, to war.
Despite all of that, they increase in numbers every year, but rather every hour.
The country that its founders wanted to be a safe haven is no more so.
Nobody wants to emigrate to it anymore since where they are is safer than emigrating to it.
Injustice is as much of a hazard for the oppressor compared to the oppressed.
Again, we wish we get our rights without violence to which we are its main victims.
However, if the military airplanes imposed death on us,
in a full confrontation of a series of them,
We must whisper in the ears of our murderers that the painful defacto of the region
that shows a war between a regular army and emerging popular resistances,
or a civil war between two blocs, of a great destructive capacity that exceeds classic wars
If everybody loses in this kind of war, then that who has more loses more.
Here, the strong would lose if he does not win,
and the weak wins if he does not lose.
We must remind the pilot conceiting to strike us that Israel never won a decisive victory in any battle since 1967.
It did not win the War of Attrition in 1968, nor the 1973 war, and when it invaded Lebanon in 1978 it got out of it later,
and when it invaded it in 1983 under the pretext of securing Galilee.
It did not do much other than replacing the Palestinian arms with Lebanese that exceeds Galilee all the way to the Negev.
It has failed in its campaigns on Lebanon in 1993, 1996, and 2006.
And on Gaza in 2008, 2012, 2014, and here it fails today.
If you think about it, Israel in 55 years, did not grab land but from those who made peace with it,
where [illegal] settling in West Bank tripled after signing the Oslo Accord.
Israel has made a laughing stock and set a bad example from those who cooperated with it and made peace with it,
and made resisting it an inevitable necessity.
Accordingly, it is possible to say that yesterday and today,
resistance, in its abstract concept, is the one and only representative of the Palestinian people.
I say liberation is possible. It is possible in this generation, but it is not inevitable.
Gets closer by the resistance and further by bargaining [for the rights], treachery,
and [relationship] normalization [with Israel], dictatorships, and sectarian wars in our region.
Let it be known to every supporter of the dictators and normalizers that he is just as a fighter in the Israeli Army;
elongating the invasion and shortening the lives of our beloved ones. However, that is another story.
This talk will not be significant after some years once the country and the people get liberated.
Once that day comes, remember the songs and forget about the politics,
Wars come and go, how many times did a country get invaded, then liberated, then forgot about its invasion and occupation?
However, now, when [you see] the teenager solid forces millions to live under tin ceilings,
or to force them to cry their loved ones, just because he does not like their religion or the color of their eyes,
then it is an ugly thing and you do not have to one of its victims to realize how ugly it is.
So remember this talk and whenever someone tells you that the resistance is futile,
tell him that the past and the present testify that it is the injustice that is futile.
I know that patience is bitter. Today, I am one of the most who knows how bitter it is.
However, be patient and you shall receive. You are not the first to be patient and receive and not the first to resist and win.